.TH OFTPD 1
.SH NAME 
.B oftpd
\- anonymous, read-only FTP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oftpd
[\fB\-N\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR \fInum\fR]
[\fB\-i\fR \fIarg\fR]
[\fB\-m\fR \fInum\fR]
[\fB\-l\fR \fInum\fR]
.I user path
.LP
.B oftpd -h
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B oftpd
is an anonymous-only FTP server.  
.PP
Although it must be started by \fIroot\fR, after initialization, it
runs as the user specified by \fIuser\fR parameter.  This should be a
user with minimal permissions, such as \fI_ftp\fR.
.PP
The server uses
.BR chroot (2)
to change the root directory of the server to the \fIpath\fR directory.
When a user connects, this is the directory that they will start in,
and is the top of their directory tree.
.PP
When FTP clients connect, they may log in as "ftp" or "anonymous".
Typically they will then send their e-mail address as password (most web
browsers send a browser identifier rather than the user's e-mail
address).  Standard UNIX file permissions are enforced for downloading,
meaning clients may download any file \fIuser\fR has permission to read.
No uploads are permitted.  All client activity is logged (see
\fBDIAGNOSTICS\fR below).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -N
Do not run in the background; for running from
.BR init (8)
or for testing.
.TP
.BI -p " num"
Use the specified port number to listen for connections. 
If not specified, the default FTP port number (21) is used.
.TP
.BI -i " arg"
Use the interface named \fIarg\fR or the interface which is connected to the IP address \fIarg\fR to accept connections. If not specified, the server listens on all interfaces.
.TP
.BI -m " num"
Accept at most \fInum\fR simultaneous clients. If not specified, 250 will
be the limit.
.TP
.BI -l " num"
\fBoftpd\fR logs messages to syslog as the FTP daemon.  With this option,
the specified local-logging level \fInum\fR will be used. Valid numbers
range from \fI0\fR-\fI8\fR.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Syntax errors will result in an error message being displayed, and a
non-zero exit code returned.  Otherwise the server will exit without
output, and return zero.
.PP
After the server has started, you should check the appropriate log
produced by 
.BR sysklogd (8)
for the FTP daemon to ensure that startup completed correctly.  Certain
errors occur only after the server has disconnected from the TTY, so
can only be recorded via the log mechanism.
.PP
If the server must terminate for any reason, it will also be logged, as
will other non-fatal internal errors.  They are logged with attention to
how serious the condition is believed to be, as documented in the
.BR syslog (3)
library call.
.PP
Client activity will also be logged through this mechanism.  This
includes connect and disconnect (or rejection due to too many
simultaneous users), the e-mail address reported as password, and file
transfers.  All client commands are logged as sent at the \fBDEBUG\fR
level.  To fully monitor client activity you may configure
.BR sysklogd (8)
to record these.
.SH NOTES
\fBoftpd\fR does not use
.BR inetd (8)
to run.  It is a stand-alone server.  There is no need to configure the 
.I /etc/inetd.conf
file to run it.  In fact, there should be no entry for FTP there at all.
.PP
You can use the
.BR kill (1)
command to stop
.B oftpd.
When the server receives SIGHUP or SIGINT, it will stop listening for
new FTP connections, and a new FTP server may be started.  Any existing
connections to the old server will continue to function normally until
the client disconnects or times out.  After all clients connections have
closed, the server will exit.  
.PP
To shutdown the server and close all client connections immediately, use
SIGKILL.
.SH AUTHOR
Shane Kerr <shane@time-travellers.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ftp (1)

