Note

This is a fork of Shane Kerr's oftpd. This fork is designed for OpenBSD
and maximum security in mind.


Installation

See the INSTALL file for directions on compiling and installing the
binary.  Short version (as root):

  # ./autogen.sh
  # ./configure
  # make
  # make install

This will install the oftpd daemon itself.  To run the server via the
standard Unix startup mechanism, you'll need to add it to your startup
files.

Be sure to read the FAQ if you have any questions!


Introduction

oftpd is designed to be as secure as an anonymous FTP server can
possibly be.  It runs as non-root for most of the time, and uses the
Unix chroot() command to hide most of the systems directories from
external users - they cannot change into them even if the server is
totally compromised!  It contains its own directory change code, so that
it can run efficiently as a threaded server, and its own directory
listing code (many FTP servers execute the system "ls" command to list
files).  It is currently being code-reviewed for buffer overflows, and
being load-tested.


History

I wrote oftpd to fill a need we had at my company.  Our public FTP site
was a mess, and in addition to reorganizing organizing the hierarchy and
file layout I wanted to get the latest version of our FTP server
software.  It turns out that the version we had had had a number of
security issues.  So I decided to find an anonymous-only, secure FTP
server.  None of the ones I found were fully baked.  Time to write my
own.  :)


Portability

This fork of oftpd is designed only for OpenBSD. Compatibility with
Linux is not guarenteed. See the `origin` branch or Shane Kerr's website
for the original, Linux-compatible oftpd.


While I have given up development of oftpd, it's small and reliable.  Don't
hesitate to e-mail if you have questions or suggestions.  
Good luck!


Shane Kerr
shane@time-travellers.org
